1. Explain normalization?
	a. Normalization is database design technique to remove redundant data.
	b. In transaction table : country like india,IND
2. How to implement Normalization?
	a. We splitting table in to two, one reference data(master table) and other one transaction data(foreign key reference)
3. Denormalization?
	a. Normalization is database design technique to improve search performance. We merge tables. Duplicate data is present denormalization.
4. Explain OLTP vs OLAP?
	a. Online transaction processing
		i. Insert update delete in this database
		ii. normalization
	b. Online analytical processing
		i. Select the data 
		ii. De-normalization data
	c. Once the data insert into OLTP then ETL inset data into OLAP
5. Explain 1st,2nd and 3rd normal form?
	a. A for 1st : all column should have atomic value and no repeating group
	b.  P for 2nd: any non-key column which is partial dependency on primary column.
	c. T for 3rd: any non-key column which not dependent on other non-key column.
	d. 1st normal from column have atomic values, it should not have repeating groups.
		i. Create different column for each field
		ii. First name ,last name, sure name in single column we not able to update the values individually.
	e. 2nd normal.
		i. All non-key column is should be fully depend on primary key
		ii. Below table we can remove the country name column because its depend on the country master table
		iii. Id	Country Id	Name Age Country Name
	f. 3rd: All 1st and 2nd satisfied and no Transient dependency should be present.
		i. Any non-key column should  not dependent on other non-key column
		ii. Below product cost is dependent on the product so we can remove product-cost on different table
		iii. Product	Product cost	size
		iv. Id	Name	Age	Product	product cost
6. Primary key is unique key?
	a. Both of them do not allow duplicate values
	b. Only one null allow unique key , primary key not allow null value
	c. One or more unique in table but one primary key table
7. What is the difference bw char varchar
	a. Char: fixed length(always take same length)
		i. If char length is 3 : value store in 2 letter 
	b. Varchar: variable length
8. Difference b/w char and nchar?
	a. Ncahr: Unicode and non-english char we can store
		i. One char take 2 bytes
	b. Char: only English letter store
		i. One char take 1 bye
9. What is use of index?
	a. Index increase search the performance.
	b. Internally create node and leaf node to reach the data quick.
	c. Book page is index
10. What are two types of index?
	a. Both index have balance tree structure.
	b. Clustered  index
		i. Leaf node will point to actual data.
	c. Non-clustered index
		i. Leaf node take help of clustered index to point a actual data.
11. Function vs  Store procedure?
	a. Function	Store procedure
		Compute values , but will not make any permanent changes to the environment.	
		Mostly scalar value, Table value function
		Can be called select, where, other stored procedure	
		SP:
		Mini batch program can change the environment. like insert update  delete
		Can not executed select, where
	 	Can have single or multiple outputs.
		
CREATE FUNCTION dbo.AddTwoNumbers
(
    @num1 INT,
    @num2 INT
)
RETURNS INT
AS
BEGIN
    RETURN @num1 + @num2;
END;

create function psbook()
Returns varchar(50)
as
begin
Return(select Title from  Books where BookId=1)
end


12. What are trigger and why we need it?
Create trigger triggername on  tablename after insert,update,delete 
As 
begin
insert into tablename values(getdata())
End
13. 1.Identity column in sql server?
	a. Auto Increment column which automatically increment the value
14. Explain transaction and how to implement it?
	a. Transaction  treats series activity as one single unit.
	begin try
	begin tran
		insert into tball values(getdate())
	commit tran
	end try
	begin catch
		Roolback
	end catch
15. Joins:
	a. Inner join select matching record from both table
	b. Left join : 
		i. How to find left table in query  left join left side 
		ii. Tablecustomer left join ms_country
		iii. All data from left table selected and only matching record from right table
	c. Right table:
		i. All data from right table selected and only matching record from left table
	d. Full outer join:
		i. All the matching and un matching records from broth left and right table selected.
	e. Cross join:
		i. Cross join don't have matching Id

16. Trigger ?
Create trigger triggername on  tablename after insert,update,delete 
As 
begin
insert into tablename values(getdata())
end


17. Begin tran syntax ?
begin try
begin tran
	insert into tball values(getdate())
commit tran
end try
begin catch
	rollback
end catch


18. duplicate record find and delete in sql and find nth highes values?
create table #temp(
Id int not null Identity(1,1),
Name varchar(25),
Salary decimal(18,0)
)

insert into #temp values ('mari','9000'),('ravi','8000'),('jack','8500'),('prask','9500')

select *from #temp

with topserond as
(
select Name,salary,ROW_NUMBER() over(order by salary desc) as rownumber from #temp
)
select *from topserond where rownumber=2

select *from #temp


with duplicatedelet as
(
select Name,salary,ROW_NUMBER() over(partition by Name order by Name,salary)as deldata from #temp
)

delete from duplicatedelet where deldata >1

SQL Interview Questions & Answers - Part 2 :-
25:-Why do we need UNION ?
	a.To combine the two or more slect statement into a single result.
	
26:-Differentiate between Union vs Union All ?
	a.union remvoe duplicate records and union all does not remove duplicate records.
	b. union performace  slower , union all performance faster.

-- UNION
SELECT name, age FROM customers WHERE country = 'USA'
UNION
SELECT name, age FROM customers WHERE country = 'UK';

-- UNION ALL
SELECT name, age FROM customers WHERE country = 'USA'
UNION ALL
SELECT name, age FROM customers WHERE country = 'UK';
	
27:-can we have unequal columns in Union?
	a.yes, the column in the two select statment must have a same datatype.
	
28:-Can column have different data types in Union ?
	a. No, columnn cannpt have different datatypes in a union query.
	
29:- Which Aggregate function have you used ?
	a. mean(),std(),count(),sum(),min(),max()
30:- When to use Group by ?
	a.we need to summarize the data by specifi column.
	b.find the total sale of each product,  count the number of customer in country.
	
SELECT product_id, SUM(quantity_sold) AS total_sales
FROM orders
GROUP BY product_id;

31:- Can we select column which is not part of group by ?
	a.its throwing error, in order to avoid that we can use any aggreate function on other select column.
	
32:- What is having clause ?
		a. its used to filter the result set of group by query.
		
33:- Having clause vs Where clause?
		a. where clause used to filter individual rows, having clause used by group of rows.
		b. where used any types of column and having used aggregate function only.
		
34:- How can we sort records ?
		a. using order by clause to sort the result of query in asce/desc.
		
35:- Whats the default sort ?
	a.sql server do not have any default sort order. 
	b. if you want sort we can use order by.
	
36:- How can we remove duplicates ?
	a. Distinct keyword used to remove duplicate values and only show unique values.
	b. group by also used to get unique values.
	c. question number 18 have ans. ( we use rownumber() partition by name order by name)

37:- Select the first top X records ?	
	a. use top 10 records  in select query
	b. Rownumber() also we can use to get top x record.
	
38:- How to handle NULLS ?
		a. while create a table column we can set not null constraint.
		
39:- What is use of wild cards ?
	 a. wilecards is special character that can be used to match multiple character in single string.
	 b. percentage: percent sign match any number of character ( using like '%sf%'
	 c.underscore: The underscore matches a single character.
	 
40:- What is the use of Alias ?
	a. AS keyword to create an alias.
	b.to avoid name conflicts and simpify complex queries.
	
41:- How to write a case statement ?
	select Name,
	case 
		when Salary <=8000 then 'Below 8K'
		when Salary >8000 then 'more 8K'
		end as 'salary range'
	from #temp
	
42:- What is self reference tables ?
	 a. table have foreign key that reference own primary key.
	 b.Manager and employee both in one table is called self reference table.
	CREATE TABLE employees (
	  employee_id INT NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
	  manager_id INT NULL,
	  name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
	  PRIMARY KEY (employee_id),
	  FOREIGN KEY (manager_id) REFERENCES employees(employee_id)
	);

43:- What is self join ?
	a. self join used to querying and analyzing the data into single table.
	b. eg: above question.

44:- Explain the between clause ?
	a.the between clause used to retrive the data from start and end.
	b.You can use between in conjection with sql operator and or not
	c. select *from customer where order_total between 100 and 200;

SQL Interview Questions & Answers - Part 3 :-

45:- Explain SubQuery?
	a.sub query ia sql query that is nested inside the another sql query.
	b.sub query used in select , form, where having, order by

46:- Can inner Subquery return multiple results?
	 a. Yes, an inner subquery can return multiple results.
	 
47:- What is Co-related Query?
	 a.A correlated subquery is a subquery that references a column in the outer query. 
	 b.This means that the inner subquery is executed once ,for each row in the outer query. 

SELECT CustomerID, CustomerName
FROM Customers c
WHERE (
    SELECT COUNT(*)
    FROM Orders o
    WHERE o.CustomerID = c.CustomerID
) > 1;

	 
48:- Differentiate between Joins and SubQuery?
Joins:
	a.Combine data from two or more tables based on a common field.
	b.Generally faster than subqueries, especially for large datasets.
sub query:	
	a.Filter the results of an outer query, or perform complex calculations.
	b.Generally slower than joins, especially for complex subqueries.

49:- Performance Joins vs SubQuery?
	a.Generally faster than subqueries, especially for large datasets.
	b.Generally slower than joins, especially for complex subqueries.

SQL Server Interview Questions & Answers - Part 4 :-5
50:- Find NTH Highest Salary in SQL.

SQL Server  Interview Questions & Answers - Part 5
51:-  Select the top nth highest salary using correlated Queries?
52:-  Select top nth using using TSQL
53:-  Performance comparison of all the methods.

54. column into row?

select Id,Attribute,value from(
select Id,Name,Salary from #temp
)p
UNPIVOT(
value for Attribute in (Name)
) as unpvt

55.date conversion?
select convert(varchar,GETDATE(),103) --dd/mm/yyyy
select convert(varchar,GETDATE(),101)--mm/dd/yyyy
select FORMAT(GETDATE(),'dd/MM/yyyy') as dateformat --13/10/2023
select FORMAT(GETDATE(),'dd/MM/yy') as dateformat --13/10/23
select FORMAT(GETDATE(),'dd MMMM yy') as dateformat --13 October 23

